Let's do uh cookosa for a couple
minutes. Um we can get lost in doing the
movements and thinking that somehow it
has something to do with somebody
falling on the ground, but it's a way to
reconcile the world and make human
beings one family. So I just like him to
push straight back.
uh if he starts to push down or sideways
or something like that, we're going to
get a different technique. And I don't
want to do that right now. It's okay. I
just don't want to do that right now
because I want to offer you this
practice where it looks like we're in
opposition. But as I join with his
energy,
it's his energy that throws him. I think
you should be able to see
that I'm not throwing him.
I mean, I'm taking part in producing the
harmonies of the overtone series that
move him, but it's that flow of energy.
And can we do one more here?
If you stop pushing now, just something
happens. But push harder. Push harder.
please. Thank you. Problems uh when I
was young in the art, I had no rank per
se and I was doing this kind of work
even back then and uh people and saying
well you can't teach giwaza to
beginners. You got to teach them
techniques so they get out of it and
then they can learn gi. And I would say
no it's actually the exact opposite. You
can't teach techniques to beginners uh
because uh stop me here because you're
trying to do nikio and they're setting
up a kodishi
and if you don't know kodaiishi and
you're trying to do nikio you end up
fighting and and yeah I guess you could
say it's great for physical strength
development but it has nothing to do
with hiki.
So this practice for me, this particular
koku practice
is a way to what what I hope you start
to feel here is that
you don't oppose their force. You don't
yield to their force.
You
join with their force and all of a
sudden they're interested in listening
to what you have to say. Thank you,
Mark.
I can't emphasize enough and I'll keep
trying how important this exercise is.
Push, push, push, push, push, push.
Okay. So
if he stops pushing now, this is where
we sit. But if he pushes harder, he
throws himself.
And that's the sense that I get now. He
doesn't throw himself push push at me.
He doesn't throw himself if I don't take
part.
>> Right?
>> He doesn't throw himself if I fight with
him. But if I join with his energy and
redirect it, all of a sudden he's
interested in listening to what I have
to say. And that's the feeling I'd like
to get. But I want to show you the
technical form. Palms up, fingers up,
blade edge.
Real slow. Palms up, fingers up. My
elbows down, his elbows up. Push, push,
push.
I want that feeling where he's throwing
himself. And of course, uh, please
get harder and harder, isn't it?
>> Yes.
That point where
go slow.
If he stops pushing, nothing happens.
But if he pushes, because I've joined
and redirected his energy, he throws
himself. Okay. Okie dosa.